Update NMOS With H.264.md (#5)
AMWA-TV/bcp-006-02: docs/NMOS With H.264.md

The Flow resource MUST indicate `video/H264` in the `media_type` attribute, and `urn:x-nmos:format:video` for the `format` attribute. This has been permitted since IS-04 v1.1. 
- H.264 Flow resources MAY be associated with many Senders at the same time through the Senders' `flow_id` attributes. The H.264 Flow is therefore unaffected by the use of a specific transport. 
- H.264 Flow resources MAY be associated with many Flows at the same time through the Flows' `parents` attributes. The H.264 Flow is therefore unaffected by being the parent of some other Flows.

For Nodes implementing IS-04 v1.3 or higher, the following additional requirements on the Flow resource apply.

In addition to those attributes defined in IS-04 for all coded video Flows, the following attributes defined in the [Flow Attributes Register](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/flow-attributes/) of the [NMOS Parameter Registers][] are used for H.264.

These attributes provide information for Controllers and Users to evaluate stream compatibility between Senders and Receivers.

- [Components](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/flow-attributes/#components)

>   The Flow resource MUST indicate the color (sub-)sampling, width, height and depth of the associated uncompressed picture using the `components` attribute. The `components` array values MUST correspond to the stream's active parameter sets values. A Flow MUST track the stream's current active parameter sets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The Flow resource MUST indicate the color (sub-)sampling, width, height and depth of the associated uncompressed picture using the `components` attribute. The `components` array values MUST correspond to the stream's active parameter sets. A Flow MUST track the stream's current active parameter sets.
```

(or "values in the stream's active parameter sets", to avoid having to have another apostrophe like "stream's active parameter sets' values")

Author: done

Informative note: ST 2110-22 does not require the `sampling` or `depth` SDP parameters. RFC 6184 does not define any such SDP parameters. The `sampling` and `depth` of the associated uncompressed picture could be derived from the H.264 active parameter sets by a Receiver.

- [Profile](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/flow-attributes/#profile)

>   The Flow resource MUST indicate the H.264 profile, which defines algorithmic features and limits that SHALL be supported by all decoders conforming to that profile. It SHALL comply with the stream's active parameter sets. The permitted `profile` values are strings, defined as per ITU-T  Rec. H.264 Annex A

Reviewer: Minor AMWA vs VSF nit: please change SHALL to MUST everywhere please.

Author: done

>   The Flow resource MUST indicate the H.264 profile, which defines algorithmic features and limits that SHALL be supported by all decoders conforming to that profile. It SHALL comply with the stream's active parameter sets. The permitted `profile` values are strings, defined as per ITU-T  Rec. H.264 Annex A

Reviewer: Not sure about "comply with"... would "correspond to" or "be consistent with" be better?

In my mind, the actual streamed pictures _comply with_ the active parameter sets, but the parameter sets don't constrain the NMOS Flow, so _correspond_ or _consistent_ seems a bit more precise. :smiley:

Author: The word "corresponds" is too strict as the Flow may indicate a profile A that as per the H.264 specification implies support for profiles B and C ... and the active parameter set may indicate profile B at a given time ... This is why I used the word "comply" because it means that the Flow must indicate a profile that is compliant as per the H.264 standard to the actual profile definition of the stream.

Reviewer: So you are saying one profile can be considered compliant with another profile... OK. But then I think you want the opposite, you wanted to say that the active picture parameter set value must be the same or lower than the one in the Flow, right?

Author: There reverse would also be true ... The profile of the Flow must be higher or the same than the one of the active picture parameter set value ... 

Instead of saying "higher or the same" or "lower or the same"  ... which is easier for level than profile ... I tried to use the word "compliant" or "comply" ...  I'm not sure of the normative meaning of "consistent" versus "compliant"

Would this be better: The stream's active parameter sets MUST be compliant with the profile attribute of the Flow.

And we would have a similar one for the level: The stream's active parameter sets MUST be compliant with the level attribute of the Flow.

Reviewer: Those make more sense to me at least.

Author: Ok, will go with this for now and possibly get back to it later.

  - "BaselineConstrained"
  - "Baseline" (Default if not specified in the SDP transport file)
  - "Main"
  - "Extended"
  - "High"
  - "HighProgressive"
  - "HighConstrained"
  - "High10"
  - "High10Progressive"
  - "High-422"
  - "HighPredictive-444"
  - "High10Intra"
  - "HighIntra-422"
  - "HighIntra-444"
  - "CAVLCIntra-444"

Informative note: The names of the profiles in string form have been derived from the names used at Annex A of the H.264 standard with whitespace omitted, the sampling mode always positioned at the end of the string, preceded by a '-' and the terms High and Baseline positioned at the beginning of the string.

> The [NMOS Parameter Registers] is the official reference for the profiles strings. In the case of discrepancies between this specification and the [NMOS Parameter Registers], the registers have precedence.

Reviewer: The Parameter Registers occupy a slight grey area in that they are not formally an AMWA specification. Also, I believe we should strive not to CHANGE any of these values, but may perhaps add new ones?

```suggestion
The profile strings in this specification are included in the [NMOS Parameter Registers][]. Additional strings may be added there in the future.
```

The schemas in the NMOS Parameter Registers are not at this time normative, just helpful.

Author: done

- [Level](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/flow-attributes/#level)
  The Flow resource MUST indicate the H.264 level, which defines a set of limits on the values that may be taken by the syntax elements of an H.264 bitstream. It SHALL comply with the stream's active parameter sets. The permitted `level` values are strings, defined as per ITU-T Rec. H.264 Annex A

  - "1" (Default if not specified in the SDP transport file)
  - "1b", "1.1", "1.2", "1.3"
  - "2", "2.1", "2.2"
  - "3", "3.1", "3.2"
  - "4", "4.1", "4.2"
  - "5", "5.1", "5.2"
  - "6", "6.1", "6.2"

Informative note: The names of the levels in string form have been derived from the names used at Annex A of the H.264 standard.

> The [NMOS Parameter Registers] is the official reference for the levels strings. In the case of discrepancies between this specification and the [NMOS Parameter Registers], the registers have precedence.

Reviewer: Missed this in previous review, but for consistency...

```suggestion
The level strings in this specification are included in the [NMOS Parameter Registers][]. Additional strings may be added there in the future.
```

Author: done

The Flow's `profile` and `level` attributes map to the `profile-level-id` parameter of the SDP transport file. See section SDP format-specific parameters.

> The Flow's `profile` and `level` attributes map to the members profile_idc, level_idc and constraint_set?_flag of the AVC_video_descriptor of an MPEG2-TS transport stream. See section Multiplexed Flows.

Reviewer: Why the `?` in `constraint_set?_flag`? Is it a placeholder for a digit? How about `constraint_set<N>_flag` (or `{N}`).

Author: The flags are constraint_set0_flag, constraint_set1_flag, constraint_set2_flag, constraint_set3_flag, constraint_set4_flag, constraint_set5_flag ... Would this be better constraint_set<0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5>_flag ? or simply constraint_set<N>_flag

Reviewer: Honestly I think the \<N\> form is sufficient. I think we're already a bit close to repeating too much stuff from the underlying specs.

Author: done

Informative note: The Flow's `profile` and `level` attributes are always required. The SDP transport file `profile-level-id` parameter MAY be omitted when matching the default value.

- [Bit Rate](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/flow-attributes/#bit-rate)
  The Flow resource MUST indicate the target encoding bit rate (kilobits/second) of the H.264 bitstream. It SHALL comply with the stream's active parameter sets. The `bit_rate` integer value is expressed in units of 1000 bits per second, rounding up.

>   Informative note: The H.264 bitstream is not required to transport HRD parameters such that an H.264 decoder may not know the actual target bitrate of a stream. There are bit rate limits imposed by the level of the coded bitstream. IS-11 may be used to constraint the Sender to a target bit rate compatible with the Receiver Capabilities.

Reviewer: Minor nit: "bit rate" everywhere rather than "bitrate" for consistency?

Reviewer: Also please add parenthetical definition of HRD (Hypothetical Reference Decoder), thanks!

Author: done

 - [Constant Bit Rate](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/flow-attributes/#constant-bit-rate)
  The Flow resource MUST indicate if it operates in constant bit rate (CBR) mode or variable bit rate mode (VBR or other). When operating in constant bit rate mode the `bit_rate` corresponds to the constant encoding bit rate. Otherwise it corresponds to the maximum encoding bit rate. Since the default value of this attribute is `false`, a Flow MAY omit this attribute when using a variable bitrate mode.

Informative note: The maximum bit rate information relates to the codec profile / level limits and the HRD buffering model. The CBR versus VBR mode of operation of the encoder provide essential clues about the coded bitstream produced.

> Informative note: For Flows compliant with ST 2110-22, the constant bit rate mode is more appropriately described as a strict-CBR mode where "The video compression or the packetization of the video compression shall produce a constant number of bytes per frame. The packetization shall produce a constant number of RTP packets per frame.". For other Flows, not compliant with ST 2110-22, it is the constant bit rate definition of of the H.264 specification that prevail.

Reviewer: How does a Controller know if the Flow is ST 2110-22 compliant? I think maybe it's clear at the Sender (`st2110_21_sender_type`, see BCP-006-01) and/or in the SDP file?

Maybe change "For Flows compliant with ST 2110-22" to "For streams compliant with ST 2110-22" would be enough?

Author: Changed to "For streams compliant with ST 2110-22" ... We should revisit when doing the Sender attributes section. SSN still optional as per ST 2110-22 (2022 version)

> Informative note: For Flows compliant with ST 2110-22, the constant bit rate mode is more appropriately described as a strict-CBR mode where "The video compression or the packetization of the video compression shall produce a constant number of bytes per frame. The packetization shall produce a constant number of RTP packets per frame.". For other Flows, not compliant with ST 2110-22, it is the constant bit rate definition of of the H.264 specification that prevail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Informative note: For Flows compliant with ST 2110-22, the constant bit rate mode is more appropriately described as a strict-CBR mode where "the video compression or the packetization of the video compression shall produce a constant number of bytes per frame. The packetization shall produce a constant number of RTP packets per frame." For other Flows, not compliant with ST 2110-22, it is the constant bit rate definition of the H.264 specification that prevails.
```

Author: done

Examples Flow resources are provided in [Examples](../examples/).

### Senders
#### RTP transport
##### SDP format-specific parameters

This section applies to a Sender with RTP transport directly associated to an H.264 Flow through the Sender's `flow_id` attribute.

Informative note: When an H.264 Flow is not directly associated with a Sender but with another Flow through the Flow's parents attribute, it does not have to provide format-specific attributes in the form of an SDP transport file. A Sender has such requirement only for the Flow directly associated with it.

> The SDP file at the `manifest_href` MUST comply with the requirements of RFC 6184 in the [Usage in Declarative Session Descriptions](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6184#section-8.2.3) mode of operation. The SDP Offer/Answer Model described in RFC 6184 is not supported. The `fmtp` source attribute as specified in Section 6.3 of RFC 5576 (Source-Specific Media Attributes in the Session Description Protocol) is not supported.

Reviewer: Should we add reference for RFC 5576, even though we're saying this is _not_ supported?

Author: done

The profile strings in this specification are included in the [NMOS Parameter Registers][]. Additional strings may be added there in the future.

- [Level](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/flow-attributes/#level)
  The Flow resource MUST indicate the H.264 level, which defines a set of limits on the values that may be taken by the syntax elements of an H.264 bitstream. It MUST comply with the stream's active parameter sets. The permitted `level` values are strings, defined as per ITU-T Rec. H.264 Annex A

  - "1" (Default if not specified in the SDP transport file)
  - "1b", "1.1", "1.2", "1.3"
  - "2", "2.1", "2.2"
  - "3", "3.1", "3.2"
  - "4", "4.1", "4.2"
  - "5", "5.1", "5.2"
  - "6", "6.1", "6.2"

Informative note: The names of the levels in string form have been derived from the names used at Annex A of the H.264 standard.

The level strings in this specification are included in the [NMOS Parameter Registers][]. Additional strings may be added there in the future.

The Flow's `profile` and `level` attributes map to the `profile-level-id` parameter of the SDP transport file. See section SDP format-specific parameters.

> The Flow's `profile` and `level` attributes map to the members profile_idc, level_idc and constraint_set<0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5>_flag of the AVC_video_descriptor of an MPEG2-TS transport stream. See section Multiplexed Flows.

Reviewer: I think `<` and`>` need escaping as `\<` and `\>` unless within backticks.

Author: done

Informative note: The Flow's `profile` and `level` attributes are always required. The SDP transport file `profile-level-id` parameter MAY be omitted when matching the default value.

- [Bit Rate](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/flow-attributes/#bit-rate)

>   The Flow resource MUST indicate the target encoding bit rate (kilobits/second) of the H.264 bitstream. It MUST comply with the stream's active parameter sets. The `bit_rate` integer value is expressed in units of 1000 bits per second, rounding up.

Reviewer: A similar confusing (for me) "comply with" here...

Author: done
